# Data-Bootcamp-Midterm-Project
Christina, Kavya, and Vidhi's Midterm Project 

Introduction to Project & Summary of Findings:

The overall purpose of the project is to carry out an in-depth analysis of a series of different metrics that measure the success of movies. To begin with, we carried out a financial analysis of standalone versus franchise movies, identifying metrics such as ROI, profitability and revenue trends. Additionally, we carried out an analysis of the revenue distribution based on the number of films as a standalone and franchise film. This allowed us to identify the relationship between financial success (in terms of revenue) between these two commercial strategies. Through this, we were able to identify a clear relationship between franchises having a higher revenue with a higher number of films compared to standalone films. Owing to the access to better resources and funds in franchises compared to standalone films, the data supports the initial hypothesis of franchise films having a higher revenue than standalone. As the financial viability of a movie is not solely dependent on its revenue, further analysis of the relationship between the revenue and the film type was carried out. The analysis indicated that franchises also had a higher ROI, indicating the relative success of franchises compared to standalone films from the perspective of an investor (or producer). Conversely, certain standalone films have higher revenues than franchise films, as seen through the boxplot. However, the percentage of standalone films that outperform franchise films is considerably lower, conveying that while there are a few rare standalone films that have experienced phenomenal success, it would not be an ideal data point to consider the success of other standalone films. Standalone films also have a lower Q1, indicating that more standalone films underperform compared to franchise ones, indicating a higher level of risk in investment. Furthermore, as there is lesser variability in franchise films, it would be easier to predict its financial performance and make wiser investment decisions. However, the average number of viewer votes were higher for standalone films by 0.3. This draws out a disparity between the financial and commercial success of standalone films, indicating a higher viewer satisfaction for standalone films. This could help inform individuals deciding whether to create a standalone film or participate in a franchise, depending on their core purpose—stanadalone films for audience satisfaction and franchises for financial viability. Moreover, we created a boxplot to identify the scope of existing outliers that could potentially skew the results. Through this we could see that while there were outliers, most of the standalone films within the range of $1.5 billion, with a sole movie grossing approximately $2.3 billion. Franchises on the other hand have a larger variability in their data, with certain films having a revenue of nearly $3 billion, while most other outlier films had a revenue between $1.6- $2.8 billion approximately.  Moreover, we carried out a country-wise detailed analysis of the revenue success of standalone and franchise films across 7 countries. The degree of results varied considerably across geographical locations, nevertheless, yielding a reading of a higher overall success of franchise films. For instance, franchise films outperformed standalone films by $1.7 billion in Australia whereas, there was solely a $0.1 billion difference in France, indicating a lower risk of making either type of film in France. Similarly, franchise films in the United Kingdom perform almost double as well as standalone films. This highlights the various geographical locations people can use to determine their overall success. When looking at the graph, we realized that the only data available for movie revenues in Malta and Mexico, were solely for franchises and standalone films respectively. This made it difficult to understand the  relative success in the market. The data for Malta however indicated that franchise films perform better in this geographical location in comparison to the other countries by a significant margin— of up to $6.6 billion. Standalone films on the other hand perform the most poorly in Mexico, highlighting a geographical location standalone films should avoid screening in. South Africa similarly has the lowest performance for franchise films, with a revenue of solely $1 billion. 
In order to understand the success of franchise films relative to one another, we carried out an analysis of the top 10 franchises and their corresponding revenues, within the range of, Star Wars and the Twilight Collection. There are no clear quantifiable indicators that define what influences the performance of these films in terms of the number of films in the franchise, as Harry Potter despite having more films (8) than the Avengers(4) collected resulted in a similar revenue of nearly $7billion. one could infer that several factors including storyline quality and depth, resonance with audiences, quality of sets and characters etc. could have influenced its success. 
As a way to further solidify our understanding of the correlation between various metrics that could influence movies’ success, we analysed the fluctuations in the revenues of standalone and franchise films over the course of 70 years. While there has been a largely upward trajectory for both the cinematic industry as a whole, franchise films, despite starting nearly a decade after standalone films, have had a higher level of revenues. The decade of the 1970s marked the highest period of revenue growth for franchise films, while growth for standalone films was relatively stagnant during that time. 1990s and 2020s marked the highest points of success for standalone films, however, with numerous fluctuations over time. Franchise films on the other hand have increased relatively steadily since the 1980s, the growth slowing down, but not stopping post 2010.
An analysis of the correlation was carried out, visualising the same through a heatmap of the various metrics that we analysed throughout the project. The revenue and budget have the highest correlation, indicating that movies produced more professionally with better quality cinematography, sets, etc. might create a better final product. Similarly, the revenue and vote count seemed to have the highest correlation of 0.41. However, this contradicts the finding of the comparison between the average of votes for franchise and standalone films, with standalone films having a higher vote count but lower revenue. This discrepancy could be due to the fact that the difference between both the franchise and standalone films was negligible, it could be that films with a higher vote average could tend to perform better, resulting in higher revenues. Revenue and popularity followed suit, conveying a clear relationship between higher popularity resulting in their ticket sales and therefore higher revenues. The revenue and runtime, although has quite a low correlation of 0.28 indicating that the success of films is defined by factors other than the duration. 
